## CS 398 State of Robotics

As I'm getting ready to graduate and venture out into the world of technology I can’t help but be torn by which area of technology to dive into. There's so many interesting and evolving fields it's easy to get overwhelmed. With that being said, one field that has caught my interest is robotics. Robotics is such a complex and relatively vast field that I personally find to be quite inspiring. How could you not find robotics interesting to some extent, with all the sci-fi movies out there revolving around robots making our lives easier while also attempting to take over the world at the same time,I mean how exciting! Personally I’m tired of having to do my laundry, mow my lawn, clean my house and all the other mundane time consuming tasks we have to do everyday. So this brings me to wonder what is the current state of robotics and how far off are we from no longer having to do chores and having to drive ourselves places?

 Like I mentioned, robotics is a vast field and can take on many different forms, all of which have the common goal of making our lives easier. From robotic vacuum cleaners to car manufacturing plants, to self-driving cars and much much more. Some of the current leaders in the robotics industry unsurprisingly are Singapore, South Korea and Japan. According to the International Federation of Robotics(IFR) “The average robot density in the manufacturing industry hit a new global record of 113 units per 10,000 employees. By regions, Western Europe (225 units) and the Nordic European countries (204 units) have the most automated production, followed by North America (153 units) and South East Asia (119 units). “ Though in countries like Singapore the robot density is quite high as according to the IFR, Singapore has a robot density of 918 units per 10,0000 employees. That's almost a robot for every 10 workers. To clarify though the robot density is calculated using strictly industrial robotics compared to the number of workers. For comparison the United States has a robot density of 228, this is mainly due to the recent increase in domestic car manufacturing.

As of now 90% of the robotics in the world today can be found in factories as most of the robots being produced these days are designed for manufacturing purposes. As a result most robotics companies tend to focus on building and designing robots to help improve manufacturing processes rather than creating something like you would see in “I, Robot” or Ex Machina. In fact, interestingly enough in an interview with Elon Musk regarding the work being done at SpaceX he had sort of comically mentioned that the biggest challenge for SpaceX is not building or designing rockets, that’s the easy part you can read a book on it. But the real challenge is in fact designing the manufacturing robots that are responsible for building and assembling the rockets for mass production. This is where apparently the real challenge lies. Some of the companies that are attempting to be the leaders of the manufacturing robotic industry are ABB (Switzerland), FANUC (Japan), KUKA (Germany), and of course you can’t forget about Amazon robotics. On top of that, while they may not be industry leaders by any means, we even have a local company here in the Treasure Valley (Idaho) called House of Design that's attempting to disrupt the industrial robotics industry.

While industrial robotics certainly encompass a large portion of the field of robotics, certainly there's other areas of robotics that are a little bit more exciting.  One area of robotics that's up and coming and not far away from being an everyday thing is self driving cars. Currently there’s over 250 autonomous vehicle companies with some of the top companies being Tesla, Cruise, Waymo, and Aurora. At the moment it is predicted that self-driving cars will be available to the public for purchase potentially as soon as 2024. So only two years away, although it's very likely that they will be priced out of range of the average consumer. It's more likely that these vehicles will be bought out by rideshare companies such as Uber and Lift. On top of that, while there may be a lot of advances in this technology making it a very real possibility in the near future, there has been absolutely zero federal regulations put in place for these vehicles. So while they may be coming to market soon, who's to say how long it will be until our laws are equipped to take on this new and potentially very dangerous means of traveling. 

When it comes to task/choir completing robots it does appear that we are still a ways out from this being a reality. While there are a lot of companies working on humanoid robots, almost all of them are focusing on making them as “life-like” as possible rather than making them functional like you would see in “I, Robot” where the robots would perform actual tasks rather than just displaying emotions and appearing “human-like”. One company that has attempted to make a task completing robot is Boston Dynamics. They mainly design robots for performing military tasks, however their main robot that has officially hit the store is a little more general in what it can do. The robot’s name is Spot, it is a 4 legged robot dog that can come equipped with an arm on its back capable of opening and closing doors, picking up items and much more. This all comes at the cost of a measly $75,000 (though this version doesn’t include the arm). So with that being said, unfortunately we’re a long way away from a consumer friendly generalized task completing robot. 


Looking to the future, it's quite evident that robots and robotic based companies will cause a major disruption in the world’s economy and job market and it's all just a matter of time. While certainly there’s lots of cool tech coming down the pipeline, unfortunately it appears we're still a ways out from our dystopian “I, Robot” equivalent future where we no longer have to do anything. 


Citations: 
Ifr. (n.d.). Robot race: The world´s top 10 automated countries. IFR International Federation of Robotics. Retrieved April 1, 2022, from https://ifr.org/ifr-press-releases/news/robot-race-the-worlds-top-10-automated-countries


